Hello everyone and welcome to this week's
module on graph analytics with Neo4j
using the Cypher query language.
I'm Jeff Sale and I'll be your
instructor for this series of lessons.
I've been an instructional designer at
the San Diego Supercomputer Center for
more than ten years, but I've also had
a passion for scientific visualization and
visual analytics in one form or
another for over two decades.
And I'm very excited about this
opportunity to introduce you to this
free and very powerful graph
analytics tool called Neo4j.
First we realized that many of you
may not have the systems capable of
pushing the boundaries of
Neo4j's performance limits.
Plus the fact that many of you are fitting
this course into your already busy
schedules means we'll be working with data
sets, which will load into Neo4j and can
be analyze in a reasonable length of time,
on the order of minutes not hours or days.
However you can be sure that Neo4j
is capable of processing and
analyzing extremely complex graph networks
consisting of millions of nodes and
relationships.
This module consists of a series of
hands-on demonstrations with Neo4j,
which begin with examples of
some basic cypher queries
that soon progress to some of
the more advanced cypher queries.
We'll begin by using a relatively simple
graph representing a road network, but
we'll also use much larger and
more complex data sets,
including sociological data on
global terrorist groups and
genetics data on associations and
interactions between genes.
These data sets are in fact sub
sets of much larger data sets and
we're making both of the sub sets and
complete data sets available for download.
Once you become comfortable working
with the smaller data sets,
we encourage you to explore
the larger sets on your own.
Finally you'll notice that each
video is accompanied by a text file
containing all of the code used
in the video demonstrations.
These files include dozens of sample
scripts, written in cypher, designed to
make it easy for you to learn, not only
basic cypher cards, but also queries which
focus on more advanced methods such
pathenoids and connectivity analytics.
When you're finished with this module
you'll be able to write cypher scripts to
import and
analyze your own data using Neo4j.
So thank you for
enrolling in this course and let's get
started doing some real graph analytics
with Neo4j and the Cypher query language.